FERRO FLUIDS LITERATURE & PATENT CLASSIFICATION USING AI
IS 421 : 2026 SPRING

INPUT:
1.	Scopus output generated with the help of NJIT Library:
Lists Journal papers, books, book chapters, and other publications where the terms “Ferrofluids” / “magnetic fluids” appear between the years 1965 and 2025.
Merge multiple files.
Manually generate a column referencing each document with a unique serial number.
This document has 4000+ entries. Stored in multiple documents. 
Format: MS excel workbook / CSV files. 

2.	Querry output generated with the help of NJIT Library:
There are two files. They list US Patents from1965 to 2025.
Merge multiple files.
Manually generate a column referencing each document with a unique serial number.
This document has 2000+ entries. Stored in multiple documents. 
Format: MS excel workbook / CSV files. 

GOALS / EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
Goal1:
Produce the following classified output.
The classification output should contain
Column	Meaning
Serial Number	Publication identifier that you generated in the given data.
Year	Publication year
Title	Title text of article
Primary Class:	Numeric class label (looks categorical) – Most probable class. 
Primary Desc:	Description of the primary classification
Secondary Class:	Another numeric class label (looks categorical) – Less probable class.
Secondary Desc:	Description of the secondary classification
Tertiary Class:	Another numeric class label (looks categorical) – Least possible class.
Tertiary Desc:	Description of the tertiary classification
Reasoning:	Justification text explaining classification

Condition: 	    Classification to be entirely based on the ABSTRACT provided with each entry 
    & NOT based on Keywords or Title of the entry.  
   Primary, secondary & Tertiary classification depends on the relevance 
   of the text description in the Abstract content.
   If an abstract contains precisely one unique subject matter 
   the Primary, Secondary and Tertiary class may all be the same class.  
All other information provided in the original input should be kept with each row of the output dataset – should maintain data integrity.
Output should be comprehensively sorted based on the following criteria taken in that order:
i.	Publication Year
ii.	Primary class
iii.	Secondary class
iv.	Tertiary class

Goal 2:
Exactly similar classification output regarding the US Patent list.
Output should be sorted based on similar criteria:

Goal 3:
Perform a gap analysis amongst patents:  Which class has more patents – which class has no patents – which has some patents – consolidate such information by the year.
This must be based on the Primary class of the referenced patent – reference should be based on the publication.
Also Perform a relational dependency analysis of papers and patents.  
For each patent, provide at least 3 references to publications/papers that relate to the patent. 
Goal 4:
Patent assignees who have published papers on the same topic of the Patent either before or after the Patent approval. Indicate by using Serial Number Cross reference.  
Goal(s), other: 
You can include any other goals that occur to your creative minds. 
Please attach a separate statement on the rationale.
Likely use of your output:
Several analyses have been planned with use of your output and report to be published in a journal paper. 
One possible chart of the type shown below may be generated for each 5 year period and discussed.  In this chart y-axis represents major class category number, x-axis represents frequency (frequency of each histogram bar is also shown to the right of histogram bar)  


 

CLASSIFICATION CRITERIA:
Please refer to separate document included. 
You can also use AI to refine the classification.
If refined, you must write a separate statement with proper justification explaininmg your 
rationale.  

REPORT:
Submit a detailed report of around 5 pages explaining 
•	the process you have used
•	your reflections of the process, and the analysis  
•	indicating anything special you performed in this analysis
•	any new class you created, describing the rationale.
 The example graphs shown in this instruction are based on manual analysis. 
You are not required to generate such histograms for the report. 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS:
Some of your work may be used in a publication pertaining to a review on Ferrofluids very soon. 
Any results, if used from your reports, will be appropriately acknowledged in the planned paper.
